---
title: Notes on DFT Result
---
I always forget about the rules here - writing it
down for future reference.

RMS Voltage
===========

        Vrms = Vp / √2 = 0.707 * Vp

So a pure sinusoid (Vp=1, Vpp=2) has a Vrms of 0.707. 

DFT Magnitude
=============

The N-point DFT returns a set of N complex values. The first N/2
values (0 to N/2-1) represent the positive frequencies (upward from 
left to right) and the N/2 to 
N-1 values represent the negative frequencies (downward from left to right).

The N/2 value is the Nyquist (f<sub>s</sub>/2) frequency. 
By convention it is considered to be a negative frequency.

If the magnitude of the complex value in a bin is scaled 
by 2/N we end up with a value that is the Vp of the original signal. Except for the DC bin (bin 0) and the Nyquiest
bin (bin N/2), which should only be 
scaled by 1/N since they contains "both sides" of the 
energy.

When the input signal is a cosine, possibly with a DC component:
* Bin 0 is all of the DC energy.
* Bin N/2 is all of the energy at the Nyquist frequency (f<sub>s</sub> / 2).
* Bin 1 and Bin N-1 each contain half of the smallest
non-zero frequency (f<sub>s</sub> / N).
* Bins N/2-1 and N/2+1 each contain half of the energy which is "one bin less" than the Nyquist rate. (f<sub>s</sub> / 2) - (f<sub>s</sub> / N).

Note that if the input signal is a sin at the Nyquist frequency the N/2 
bin is zero.

The sine component (imaginary part): At k=N/2, the symmetry relation dictates that
Im(X[N/2])=-Im(X[N-N/2])=-Im(X[N/2]). The only number that is equal to its own negative is zero. Therefore, the imaginary part of the Nyquist bin is always zero, regardless of the input signal. This means the signal component at the Nyquist frequency is purely a cosine function, with no phase shift.

Goertzel Algorithm
==================

Here's a simple implementation that returns the magnitude and angle
of the selected frequency. ft is the desired frequency and fs
is the sample rate.

```python
def goertzel_polar(s, ft, fs):

    g_w = 2.0 * np.pi * ft / fs
    g_cw = math.cos(g_w)
    g_sw = math.sin(g_w)
    g_c = 2.0 * g_cw
    g_z1 = 0
    g_z2 = 0

    for v in s:
        g_z0 = v + g_c * g_z1 - g_z2
        g_z2 = g_z1
        g_z1 = g_z0

    g_r = g_cw * g_z1 - g_z2
    g_i = g_sw * g_z1
    # NOTE: The expensive square root and arctan are here:
    return np.abs(complex(g_r, g_i)), np.angle(complex(g_r, g_i))
```

The scaling rules are exactly like the full DFT: you need to scale the 
magnitude by (2.0 / N) to get the Vp of the original signal.


