---
title: Notes on W5500 Ethernet MAC/PHY 
date: 2026-03-28
---

The [datasheet is here](https://docs.wiznet.io/pdf-viewer?file=%2Fimg%2Fproducts%2Fw5500%2FW5500_ds_v110e.pdf), although it's missing some key information, a bit of which I will
fill in on this page.

## Setting Up RECV Interrupt for MACRAW (Socket 0)

Setup:

* Common register SIMR (0x0018), set S0_IMR=1.
* Socket register Sn_IMR (0x002C), set RECV=1.
* **NOTE:** Perform an initializing reset on Sn_IR to get things going (see below).

Normal running:

Whenever an interrupt is received there is some cleanup needed to get ready for the next:

* Common register SIR (0x0017) will indicate which socket had an interrupt. See the S0_INT bit.
This doesn't need to be cleared explicitly, clearing Sn_IR is the place to be cleared (see below).
* Socket register Sn_IR will indicate that type of interrupt that happened on the socket. See
the RECV bit. **IMPORTANT: In order to clear the Sn_IR bit we need to write a "1".**

**IMPORTANT NOTE:** Use all of the proper precautions when dealing with ISRs:

* Use a memory barrier (__DSB) around data shared between the ISR and the main program. This 
ensures that there are no race-conditions related to out-of-sequence execution.
* Use SCB_CleanDCache_by_Addr() on shared buffers between the DMA controllers and the main program 
to flush the d-cache. This ensures that data written by the DMA system is visible to the main
program and vice-versa.
* Is using a flag to determine when a DMA has completed (i.e. completion ISR) make sure to disable 
interrupts before
starting the DMA **and clearing the flag** to make sure that a race condition doesn't set the flag again
before we expect. 

## Receive Buffer in MACRAW Mode

The receive buffer is filled with packets made up of a two-byte length header (big endian) followed 
by the packet contents itself. The length header is **inclusive of the length and packet contents.**
