---
title: On the Benefits of Wheel Reinvention
date: 2026-02-18
---
I'm working on a [pretty elaborate VOIP project](https://mackinnon.info/ampersand/) right now and 
someone on the AllStarLink forum questioned why I was spending so 
much time "reinventing the wheel." It's a fair question, and certainly
relevant given how much of my life has been spent reinventing various
wheels, axles, transmissions, breaking systems, and other well-proven 
technologies.

In my experience, the best way to **really** understand a technology is to 
try to implement it yourself. You can read the books, take the classes,
and watch the YouTube videos, but there is no substitute 
for sitting in front of a blank screen and trying to copy an existing 
capability with your own hands. There are
100's of subtle details lurking below the surface of a system of modest
complexity, none of which can be appreciated (let alone understood) by simply watching the highlight reel.
Not to mention the AI summary ...

A time-honored training method used by artists is called 
the "Master Copy" in which the aspiring student attempts to 
reproduce a great masterwork. "_Art begets art_," says [Daniel Graves](https://danielgravesart.com/), 
a well-known painter and founder of the Florence Academy of Art, "_and
nothing is more useful for an art student than to copy a great 
master painting_." Supposedly Chopin began his piano practice every day with 
some preludes and fugues from Bach's 48. I spent two weeks in 
Maine last summer at the [The Wooden Boat School](https://www.thewoodenboatschool.com/) where a bunch of us spent 
hours a day in the shop trying to accurately reproduce a 
wooden dory designed by George L. Chaisson, the legendary 
builder from 
the north shore of Massachusetts. 

I once had the chance to work with Dragomir Krgin, a famous
[expert in the field of bond market conventions](https://www.amazon.com/Handbook-Global-Fixed-Income-Calculations/dp/0471218359) from Merrill Lynch, or at
least as famous as you can get working in such an esoteric field. I would 
approach Dr. Krgin with a question about some obtuse nuance in the "true
yield" calculation used for Italian government bonds and he would 
refuse to answer my question directly. Instead, he would
pull out his yellow pad and derive **every answer from first 
principals** (present value is the sum of the discounted future cash-flows). This 
could take hours, but I came to appreciate how 
the ease with which he could reinvent the "wheels" in his space allowed him 
to navigate complicated problem with confidence.

There is something about the 
process of replicating the work of the great masters that prepares
your hands to do great work of your own.





